---
layout: post
title: "Gnome-Pie 0.6.3!"
tagline: "contains various bug fixes."
category: news
teaser: "gnome-pie063.jpg"
colors: "color-gnome-pie063"
description: "With various bug fixes."
group: blog
---

A new version of Gnome-Pie has been released! It contains not only bug fixes but also some new features.

<!--more-->

## Complete changelog:

* **New Feature:** Lithuanian translation (thank you, Moo!).
* **New Feature:** Added a commandline option to print a list of all pies with their according IDs (`--print-ids`).
* **Update:** The preferences dialog now uses the Gtk.StackSwitcher and Gtk.HeaderBar per default. Use the commandline arguments `--no-stack-switcher` and `--no-header-bar` to revert to the old behavior.
* **Update:** Translation updates for Spanish locale. Please feel free to contribute to the [translation into your language]({% post_url 2015-08-07-translate-gnome-pie %})!
* **Bugfix:** It's now possible to add more than one "unbound Pie" (thank you, [Gabriel Dubatti](https://github.com/gabdub)!).
* **Bugfix:** The `--help` commandline argument actually shows help again.
* **Bugfix:** The app indicator has now an icon now when using Gnome-Shell.
* **Bugfix:** Fixed a bug which made it possible that the add-new-slice button was not clickable.



## Where do I get it?

[Source code snapshots](https://github.com/Simmesimme/Gnome-Pie/tags) can be downloaded directly from github. I also updated my [PPA](https://launchpad.net/~simonschneegans/+archive/ubuntu/testing) for Ubuntu (Trusty & Vivid). Feel free to download it from there!

{% highlight bash %}
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:simonschneegans/testing
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gnome-pie
{% endhighlight %}

Or, if you are adventurous, [compile it from source](/gnome-pie.html#toc5)!
