---
layout: post
title: "Gnome-Pie 0.6.5!"
tagline: "now with item search."
category: news
teaser: "gnome-pie065.jpg"
colors: "color-gnome-pie065"
description: "Gnome-Pie looks awesome with Numix Icons."
tags: ["news", "gnome-pie"]
---

A new feature has been added to Gnome-Pie: Select slices by typing their names!

<!--more-->

## Select Slices by typing

This feature has been requested by github users and may improve your workflow if you use Gnome-Pie primarily with your keyboard. Although Gnome-Pie was meant to be used with a mouse, there are many users using it with the keyboard only. This feature is for you!

To use this feature, you will first need to activate it. Simply check the new option in the settings menu! For new users it will be enabled by default; if you had Gnome-Pie installed before, you have to enable it first.

If you now open a Pie you can start typing letters on your keyboard. After each key press Gnome-Pie will evaluate which item in this Pie fits best to your input. The search is based on the Slice names, but you do not need to type the exact name. The best matching item will be selected; simply press return to activate it!

## Other changes

The themeing options have been extended a little bit by allowing for individual offsetting each element in x- and y-direction. Furthermore, starting with this release the PPA for Gnome-Pie contains packages for Wily Werewolf!


## Complete changelog

* **New Feature:** Added possibility to select slices by typing their names.
* **New Feature:** Its now possible to position each theme layer (icons, files and slice caption) relative to their centers with a x-offset and a y-offset (fixes [issue #115](https://github.com/Simmesimme/Gnome-Pie/issues/115)).
* **Update:** Translation updates for French locale (thank you, [Raphaël Rochet](https://github.com/RaphaelRochet)!). Please feel free to contribute to the [translation into your language]({% post_url 2011-11-09-translate-gnome-pie %})!
* **Update:** Translation updates for German locale.
* **Bugfix:** Fixed hard to read text when displaying slice hotkeys for some themes.


## Where do I get it?

[Source code snapshots](https://github.com/Simmesimme/Gnome-Pie/tags) can be downloaded directly from github. I also updated my [PPA](https://launchpad.net/~simonschneegans/+archive/ubuntu/testing) for Ubuntu (Trusty, Vivid & Wily). Feel free to download it from there!

{% highlight bash %}
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:simonschneegans/testing
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gnome-pie
{% endhighlight %}

Or, if you are adventurous, [compile it from source](/gnome-pie.html#toc5)!
