---
layout: post
title: "Gnome-Pie 0.6.9!"
tagline: "minor tweaks and fixes."
category: news
teaser: "gnome-pie069.jpg"
colors: "color-gnome-pie069"
description: "There are no visible changes."
tags: ["news", "gnome-pie"]
---

Some minor things have been changed since the last release of Gnome-Pie, so it was time to release a new version!

<!--more-->


## Complete changelog:

* **New Feature:** Added the possibility to assign hotkeys to combinations of mouse buttons and modifier keys. It's now possible to open Pies with combinations such as Ctrl-RightButton.
* **Improvement:** The library "bamf" (which is used for matching icons to applications by the window-list slice-group) has been made an optional dependency. On systems where bamf is not available, it's still possible to use Gnome-Pie. In most cases the icons chosen without bamf will be the same anyway.
* **Improvement:** The clock's fingers of the Simple Clock theme do not disappear fully when a slice is active.
* **Improvement:** The preferences window now has the Gnome-Pie icon when it is present in the user's icon theme.
* **Improvement:** Several translations have been updated.
* **Bugfix:** Improved modifier key managment. Activating a hotkey with a Slice is now possible even if the user holds down a modifier which is not part of the hotkey. Until now, when a user clicked on a Slice which simulates Ctrl-Z the desired action was not triggered when the user held the Alt while clicking. Doing this is possible now.
* **Bugfix:** Turbo mode works quite reliably again. There were certain conditions under which the turbo mode would not work as expected. Hopefully, most of the issues are fixed now.

Furthermore, [Gnome-Pie's PPA](https://launchpad.net/~simonschneegans/+archive/ubuntu/testing) provides packages for Xenial and Yakkety now (in addition to Wily, Vivid and Trusty).

## Where do I get it?

Simply use one of the links below to learn more about Gnome-Pie and to get involved in this project!

{% include quick_links %}
