---
layout: post
title: "Gnome-Pie 0.7.0!"
category: news
teaser: "gnome-pie070.jpg"
colors: "color-gnome-pie070"
description: "There is one new button."
tags: ["news", "gnome-pie"]
---

There was a major bug in Gnome-Pie 0.6.9 which gets fixed with this update and there is a tiny new feature as well!

<!--more-->

## Application selection

The new feature has been proposed by [RicardoEPRodrigues on Github](https://github.com/Simmesimme/Gnome-Pie/issues/134) and adds a tiny new button to the "create-a-new-slice-to-launch-an-application-dialog". This button can be seen in the picture above! When this button is clicked, the user is presented with a list of all applications installed on the system. When one of those is selected, the entries for name, command and icon of the slice are automatically filled.

{% assign picture = "gnome-pie070b.jpg" %}
{% assign size = "large" %}
{% assign text = "Clicking the new button shows a huge list of applications." %}
{% include image.html %}

A similar behavior has actually been possible before: You can drag almost anything to the pie preview in order to add new slices. One of those things are the .desktop files from ``/usr/share/applications``. However, this feature is hard to discover and the new one is much more accessible.

RicardoEPRodrigues, thanks you for this suggestion!


## Complete changelog

* **New Feature:** Added the possibility to automatically fill the fields "name", "command" and "icon" of a new slice by selecting an application from a list.
* **Improvement:** The library "bamf" which has been made optional before is now completely removed from the dependencies. This makes the code base easier to manage and it seems that there is no improvement to the icon selection when using this library.
* **Bugfix:** It is now possible again to drag'n'drop URLs and URIs to the pie preview.
* **Bugfix:** Long press for activation of slices works again (hopefully :D). This closes issues [136](https://github.com/Simmesimme/Gnome-Pie/issues/136) and [132](https://github.com/Simmesimme/Gnome-Pie/issues/132)

As always, the official [Gnome-Pie PPA](https://launchpad.net/~simonschneegans/+archive/ubuntu/testing) has been updated (it provides updated packages for Yakkety, Xenial, Wily, Vivid and Trusty).

## Where do I get it?

Simply use one of the links below to learn more about Gnome-Pie and to get involved in this project!

{% include quick-links.html %}
