---
layout: post
title: "New look!"
category: news
teaser: "chameleon.jpg"
colors: "color-chameleon"
license: "public domain"
tagline: "The background of each post adapts to the corresponding teaser image."
tags: ["jekyll", "html5", "news"]
---

My home page has been restructured a redesigned. One interesting new feature is a blurred version of the teaser image as background.

<!--more-->

## What is new?

* [Materializecss](http://materializecss.com/): The page does not use [bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/) and [darkstrap](https://github.com/danneu/darkstrap) anymore, but is now built upon [materializecss](http://materializecss.com/) with a custom dark theme.
* Blurred teaser image as page background: The page's header now features a blurred version of the teaser image. Since CSS3 blurring is quite expensive concerning performance, the blurred image is generated using an automated preprocessing step. 
* Automatic table of contents: I added a small Javascript snippet which will add an entry to the table of contents on the right for each `<h1>` and `<h2>`tag.
{% highlight javascript %}
$("h1,h2").each(function(i) {
  var id = $(this).attr("id");
  var html = "<li><a href='#" + id + "'>" + $(this).html() + "</a></li>";
  $("#toc").append(html);
});
{% endhighlight %}
* Restructured site: The landing site of the home page is now the blog. Google analytics has shown that many users were confused by the accordion on the landing page.
* Improved post layout: The layout of the post page has been refined. Here is a before-after comparison.

<div class="row">
  <div class="col s6">
    {% assign picture = "redesign_before.jpg" %}
    {% assign text = "Before." %}
    {% include image.html %}
  </div>
  <div class="col s6">
    {% assign picture = "redesign_after.jpg" %}
    {% assign text = "After." %}
    {% include image.html %}
  </div>
</div>
<div class="row">
  <div class="col s6 center">
    Before
  </div>
  <div class="col s6 center">
    After
  </div>
</div>

## How does the blurring work?

As part of the build process, a script creates a small blurred version of all teaser images. It uses image-magick's `convert` to create the image with the following command:

{% highlight bash %}
convert -geometry 250x -blur 0x5 chameleon.jpg blurred_chameleon.jpg
{% endhighlight %}


<div class="row">
  <div class="col s6">
    {% assign picture = "chameleon.jpg" %}
    {% assign text = "The original teaser image." %}
    {% include image.html %}
  </div>
  <div class="col s6">
    {% assign picture = "chameleon_blurred.jpg" %}
    {% assign text = "The blurred version." %}
    {% include image.html %}
  </div>
</div>
<div class="row">
  <div class="col s6 center">
    The original teaser image.
  </div>
  <div class="col s6 center">
    The blurred image.
  </div>
</div>


Using the following style information to the body element will set the blurred image as background for each page.

{% highlight html %}
<body class="{{ "{{page.colors" }}}}" 
      style="background-image: url(/img/blurred/{{ "{{page.teaser" }}}});">
  ...
</body>
{% endhighlight %}
