---
layout: post
title: "Gnome-Pie 0.7.2!"
category: news
teaser: "gnome-pie072.jpg"
colors: "color-gnome-pie072"
description: "Colorful Gnome-Pie."
tags: ["news", "gnome-pie"]
---

This is only a minor maintenance update with not much new content. However, I decided to switch to the much more permissive [MIT license](https://github.com/Simmesimme/Gnome-Pie/blob/master/COPYING).

<!--more-->

## MIT license

As there were several requests to use some of the code of Gnome-Pie in other applications, I decided to remove the same-license-restriction. Thus, the license of Gnome-Pie switched from GPL to MIT! I hope this encourages developers to re-use some of the GTK-widgets and algorithms I developed for Gnome-Pie.

## Complete changelog

* **New Feature:** Pies will not close when CTRL or SHIFT is pressed while clicking. This feature got requested several times so it is now reality! You can now perform multiple actions without having to re-open the pie.
* **Improvement:** Gnome-Pie switched from GPL to MIT license.
* **Improvement:** Gnome-Pie will now hide when it looses focus. This is helpful under wayland when users click on panels for example.
* **Improvement:** Fixed several deprecation warnings.
* **Improvement:** Added Dutch translation (thank you, [Heimen Stoffels](https://github.com/Vistaus)).
* **Bugfix:** Fixed a segmentation fault when a new pie was added under Wayland.
* **Bugfix:** Fixed some typos in the English translation (thank you, [Jörg Frings-Fürst](https://github.com/JoergFF)).
* **Bugfix:** Removed creation of obsolete statistics file.
* **Bugfix:** Fixed build with vala 0.42 (thank you, [Rico Tzschichholz](https://github.com/ricotz)).


As always, the official [Gnome-Pie PPA](https://launchpad.net/~simonschneegans/+archive/ubuntu/testing) has been updated. It now provides updated packages for Xenial, Bionic and Cosmic.

## Where do I get it?

Simply use one of the links below to learn more about Gnome-Pie and to get involved in this project!

{% include quick-links.html %}
