---
layout: post
title: "Fly-Pie 7 Released!"
category: news
teaser: "flypie7.jpg"
colors: "color-flypie7"
tagline: "Version 7 features a new menu editor."
tags: ["news", "fly-pie"]
---

Fly-Pie 7 has been released with support for GNOME Shell 40+ and a completely rewritten menu editor!

<!--more-->

## Why a new Menu Editor?

Porting most parts of Fly-Pie to GNOME Shell 40 was easy.
However, serious issues arose when I tried to port the preferences dialog to GTK4.
Due to [a bug in GTK4](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gtk/-/issues/3649), drag'n'drop in the `GtkTreeView` is currently broken.
Apparently, this will not get fixed anytime soon as the `GtkTreeView` is considered more or less deprecated.
Therefore, I decided to completely rewrite the menu editor.
It does not use a `GtkTreeView` any more, but a custom container widget.

To celebrate this, I created a video clip:

<div class="responsive-video-169 z-depth-2 rounded">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sRT3O9-H5Xs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

<div class="row" style="margin-top:20px">
<div class="col m6 s12">
<a href="https://github.com/Schneegans/Fly-Pie#b-downloading-a-stable-release" target="_blank" class="btn-large block waves-effect">Download from GitHub</a>
</div>
<div class="col m6 s12">
<a href="https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/3433/fly-pie/" target="_blank" class="btn-large block waves-effect">extensions.gnome.org</a>
</div>
</div>

The list below contains the complete change set for this new version.

#### New Features

* **Port to GNOME 40+**: Fly-Pie 7 has been tested on Fedora 34 and Fedora 35 which use GNOME Shell 40 and GNOME Shell 41.beta respectively.
  * Due to the massive changes to the codebase, this version is **not compatible with GNOME 3.3x**.
  * GNOME 40 makes some previously required workarounds to remove visual artifacts obsolete. This **improves menu performance** significantly!
* **WYSIWYG Menu Editor**: Due to [this bug](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gtk/-/issues/3649), the old TreeView-based menu editor did not work under Gtk4. Therefore I choose to create a new menu editor from scratch!
  * The **menu items in the new editor are arranged in a circle**, exactly in the same directions as they will show up in the real menu.
  * The new menu editor fully supports **drag and drop**: You can reorder items, copy items (at least on Wayland, see [this bug](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gtk/-/issues/4259)), and drop things from outside into the menu editor.
  * To simplify moving menu items around, there is a **Stash Area** at the bottom of the menu editor. You can drop menu items there and re-use them later.
  * The preferences dialog **opens much faster** on Gtk4 than it did on Gtk3. Thank you, GNOME devs!

#### Other Enhancements

* A warning will now be shown when the user imports a corrupt menu configuration.
* The **default menu** has been tweaked to be useful with horizontal workspaces. 
* The Custom Menu now uses a pencil as icon to emphasize that it's editable.
* The **documentation for translators** has been improved significantly. For instance, there are now screenshots available at [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/fly-pie/core/) for most strings.

#### Bug Fixes

* Fix Orchis theme. There were some issues with the center item cropping.
* Symbolic icons are now colored correctly in the menu editor.
